William Scott (wds@williamscott.me)

SUMMARY

I am a technical leader and contributor with experience creating scalable
back-end systems and great front-end experiences. I can work effectively
through the entire product life cycle, including feature planning,
implementation, and team management. I'm passionate about empowering those
around me and building things that delight customers.

SKILLS

Languages: Java, JavaScript, Groovy, Scala, SQL, Objective-C, Python, HTML, CSS

Technologies: React, Redux, Node.js, MongoDB, Git, Docker, Angular, AngularJS,
PostgreSQL, Grails, JavaEE, Spring, Tomcat, Jetty, Maven, JUnit, Jenkins, iOS,
Android, Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Methodologies: RESTful Web Services, Continuous Integration, MVC, Unit
Testing, Design Patterns, Agile / Scrum, Kanban, Object-Oriented Design,
Functional Reactive Programming, Immutable Data Structures

EXPERIENCE

CA Technologies, Raleigh, NC                                 Sep 2015 - Present
Principal Architect

- Responsible for long-term strategy of analytics/reporting and collaborated
  with product and user experience teams to plan and deliver user-facing
  features across the Agile Central product.
- Recognized as business unit representative and initial member of
  organization-wide Architectural Excellence Initiative (ArX) which seeks to
  foster technical leadership.
- Led an exploration of a legacy analytics system, prioritized improvements,
  and implemented several to ease customer issues and improve performance of
  several processes by an order of magnitude. (Groovy, Grails, MongoDB)
- Spearheaded the initial design and development of a front-door API service.
  (Node.js, Falcor)
- Developed front-end UI components incorporated throughout the product.
  (React, Redux, JavaScript, HTML, CSS)

Amplify, Remote / Durham, NC                                Jan 2012 - Sep 2015
Technical Lead

- Led the design and implementation of MongoDB sharding and indexing strategy
  and employed profiling and code analysis to optimize database queries.
  (MongoDB, JavaScript, Python)
- Coordinated with designers and curriculum developers to gather requirements
  for and assess feature development timelines for a digital math curriculum
  workspace.
- Founded and facilitated a company-wide technical meetup designed to
  disseminate best practices related to the technology stack and presented
  frequently.
- Developed a web-based, collaborative education platform and workspace
  providing integrated curriculum and assessment workflows. (JavaScript,
  AngularJS, HTML5, CSS)
- Collaborated with technical writers and designed a workflow to generate
  API documentation. (Python, Bash)
- Developed an education data store, with full-stack involvement and specific
  responsibility in the database, data access layer, and secure RESTful API.
  (Java, Spring, JAX-RS)
- Implemented a proxy API which allows fast project iteration and API
  development while maintaining integration with core API services. (Node.js,
  Socket.io)

itMD, Remote                                                Apr 2011 - Dec 2011
Software Engineer

- Developed a scalable, highly-available web-based medical imaging network
  with workflows designed specifically for radiologists. (Java, HTML, CSS,
  JavaScript)
- Designed and implemented a plugin system capable of launching most web-based
  and desktop medical image viewers. (Java)
- Managed cloud infrastructure, including setup, administration, and
  monitoring, on Amazon Web Services and OpSource as well as private server
  installs. (Bash, Nagios)
- Collaborated with physicians and radiologists to design, mock-up, and
  document new application features and directed overseas developers.
- Provided technical customer support to diagnose problems and identify
  application bugs. (Zendesk)

Wake Forest University Health Sciences, Winston-Salem, NC   Nov 2009 - May 2011
Analyst / Programmer II

- Developed a secure, patient-driven medical image sharing network as part of
  an NIH-funded project, with specific focus on rural providers and limited
  IT resources.
- Produced a clinical imaging workstation which reduced patient CD image
  import errors by 90%. (Java, Bash)
- Augmented the open source project dcm4chee-Archive with a custom API and
  event callback system to aid in image transfer between facilities. (Java)
- Improved performance of RSNA's MIRC open source image server for on-site use
  by modifying image workflow and caching. (Java)
- Initial member of WFU Mobile Application Development Group which seeks to
  explore and initiate the use of mobile devices in health care. (iOS, Android)

GreatWall Systems, Inc., Winston-Salem, NC                  Oct 2007 - Mar 2009
Software Engineer

- Developed multi-core, high-performance parallel firewall solutions.
- Analyzed and implemented access rule order storage structures and
  thread-safe optimization algorithms. (C++)

EDUCATION

Wake Forest University                                      Aug 2005 - May 2007
MS, Computer Science - Focus on Bioinformatics

Roanoke College                                             Aug 2001 - May 2005
BS, Computer Science & Mathematics

CONFERENCES AND COURSEWORK

Speaker at 2015 Triad Software Developers Conference - AngularJS

Technical Book Reviewer of RESTful Web Services with Scala by Jos Dirksen

Recent Independent Coursework:
- Advanced iOS Programming (Big Nerd Ranch)
- Functional Programming Principles in Scala (Coursera)

ACTIVITIES

Attend community meetups: TriJUG, Triangle JavaScript, Triangle Cocoa,
TriAngular.js, Fleet Feet Raleigh Run Club, Raleigh Trail Runners

Running: Regularly log 55 miles per week. Completed multiple marathons and
ultramarathons.

Pi Kappa Alpha: National Greek Social Fraternity. Elected chapter Internal
Vice President. Developed and maintained chapter website.

Upsilon Pi Epsilon: National Computer Science Honors Society.
